Proust Questionnaire


What is your idea of perfect happiness?


My idea of perfect happiness is a nature hike through the forest with my wife and kids. Preferably there would be some kind of delicious picnic in the middle of the hike.  Second choice would be enjoying an expertly made latte while looking at the ocean.  It should have perfect microfoam – no big bubbles in the milk.  Most coffee shops don’t do it right and the bubbles are too large – it’s a big problem for me.


What is your greatest fear?


[Omitted - holdout question]


What is the trait you most deplore in yourself?


The trait I most deplore in myself is my lack of organization.  I wish I could be better prepared for things rather than doing everything last minute.  I would not exactly say I deplore anything about myself, though – maybe I just have some traits that could use improvement.


What is the trait you most deplore in others?


The trait I most deplore in others is probably arrogance.  I appreciate it when people take time to listen and understand what the other person is saying before coming in with their opinion or advice.  So in that sense I am a big proponent of the ASCCR principles. 


What is your greatest extravagance?


My greatest extravagance is probably buying random electronics projects that I will never have time to work on.  Hopefully soon my children will be old enough to work on the projects and then I can pretend that I am buying them for their benefit.  I also enjoy travel and food and don’t mind splurging on that.


What is your current state of mind?


        [Omitted - holdout question]


What do you consider the most overrated virtue?


The virtue I consider most overrated is probably rigidity or resoluteness – I am not sure what to call it, exactly.  But I have not found a lot of benefit from being unbending about most things and I prefer to be flexible, especially if it is in service of others.  Obviously there are some things that you should have firm principles about but I feel that there are a lot of things that people take a firm stand on without really thinking about whether it is truly important to them.


On what occasion do you lie?


I find it difficult to lie and am probably terrible at it.


What is the quality you most like in a person?






Which words or phrases do you most overuse?


Words or phrases I tend to overuse are probably “yeah” and “cool.”  Also, “that’s interesting,” but honestly I find a lot of things interesting.


What or who is the greatest love of your life?






When and where were you happiest?


My happiest moments were when my kids were born – it is pretty amazing to see their eyes open and look right at you.


Which talent would you most like to have?


The talent I would most like to have is being an excellent jazz musician.  I am working on it, when I have time...


If you could change one thing about yourself, what would it be?


I wish I could be better about saying no to things and maintaining a better work-life balance.


What do you consider your greatest achievement?


My greatest achievement has to be my children – they are thoughtful, kind, funny, and generally a joy to be around.


If you were to die and come back as a person or a thing, what would it be?






Where would you most like to live?


I do like San Luis Obispo but sometimes I imagine retiring in Santa Barbara which is also pretty nice.  I would also be okay with vacation homes in Europe.


What is your most treasured possession?


My most treasured possessions are probably my piano and my guitar.


What do you regard as the lowest depth of misery?






What is your favorite occupation?


        My favorite occupation is the one I have – being a computer science professor.


What is your most marked characteristic?


My most marked characteristic is probably being quiet and mild mannered.  But I hope people also think of me as kind, thoughtful and humorous.


What do you most value in your friends?


I most value friends that are enjoyable to talk with and are willing to stomach my bad cooking.


Who is your hero of fiction?






Which historical or fictional figure do you most identify with?






Who are your heroes in real life?


I really admire jazz musicians like Miles Davis, Bill Evans, and John Coltrane.  I wish I could make music like them.  Let me just add that not all of them were heroes in their personal lives – I am just thinking of their musical achievements.  


What is it that you most dislike?


        [Omitted - holdout question]


What is your greatest regret?






How would you like to die?






What is your motto?


        [Omitted - holdout question]